# Builderz Royalty Redemption Program

The Builderz Royalty Redemption Program is a smart contract-based program that facilitates the tracking of royalty redemptions to easily redeem unpaid royalties in a single transaction on the Solana blockchain.

It is used by the [Builder Tool Suite](https://tools.builderz.build/) and the [Re:naissance xNFT](https://www.xnft.gg/app/2394APCiqS2Q6iqsGiqN769QVJw8EooFWtRiVNK8TEsY) powered by Builderz.

## Usage

The Program is based on a single instruction entrypoint. You define the NFT the royalties should be redeemed for and all the creator publickeys in an array of additional accounts. Then the amount that should be repay is given in the instruction.

There are no checks of how large the amount should be. Just checks that the given nft creator addresses match the actual ones of the NFT.

The Instruction creates a PDA with based on the NFT mint and tracks the date of the redemption. This can then be referenced on the front-end to track the NFTs state.

> **Note**
> There's a simple client sdk generated by Metaplex Solita package to be used in the folder sdk

## Tracking on the client

To track royalties on the client you can use the generated SDK. If you want to track a more general state of royalties paid/not paid of NFTs you need to check each NFT for it's latest secondary market sale and check that the correct amount of royalties have been paid. We're currently using Helius APIs to enable that.

We also plan to release a dedicated API soon which other projects can use to build upon our solution and incentivize royalties in all kinds of their own ecosystems. Stay tuned for updates on our [Twitter](https://twitter.com/renaissance_xyz)
